# Are We Living In An Illusion?

As a human being, we are well equipped with multiple senses and respond to the environment accordingly. We can see, taste, smell, feel and what not. But one thing which keeps bugging my mind is that it's all human brain which conveys the message out the receptors we use. For example, the brain never sees someone or never tastes something it's just packed within our heads and responds to electrical impulses received by various body parts and obtains the inference.


This confuses me to think that maybe it's not what we see, it's actually what we are made to see by our brains. Maybe the person who is shaking hands with me is not even close enough to me, but my brain is tricking me to believe that they are standing next to me shaking hands with me. Maybe we all are billions of light years away from each other all alone, but somehow we are brought together by the constructive inferences generated by our mind.


<blockquote>
We think the way we are programmed to think.
</blockquote>

Out of wide electromagnetic spectrum, we are just able to see fraction of them (visible region). Out of huge basket of vibration, we are able to sense (hear) only a certain range of it. What does it speak about? Clearly, things are not as simpler as it appears to us, and probably it's actually this way for better. But at the same time, this also concludes that world maybe not the way we see it, at least it's not just what we see.

We are totally constrained by our biology and there are very much chances we just exist in the form of energies, oscillating continuously and repeatedly, there are very much chances matter is nothing more than an illusion and this entire world can be a 3D program. Out there it can be all free space and we are spread across the corners of Universe thinking that we all are nearby to each other.

Just because our minds have been telling us red is red from the very childhood doesn't actually mean red is red, red maybe green or red maybe not more than a fake electrical impulse which just responds to the cone cells of our eyes. The poor hungry dog roaming around the streets may be just an illusion to you who might be living in another dimension with all the fun and leisure you could ever imagine of. Nothing can be said as absolute and everything we are experiencing is totally relative.

We observe this world in the possible way we can, there can be many hidden mysteries beyond that and reality may be totally different from what we are expecting as our realities are constrained by our biology.

<blockquote>
In the end, we all can be nothing more than just forms of energies vibrating at different frequencies.
</blockquote>