# Heartbreaks: A Vital Element Of Life

Life is all about ups and downs, we find so many moments where we are overwhelmed by our emotions which reflect our current situations. We start cursing people, we start cursing things and depending upon the magnitude of the breakthrough we go through, we end up cursing god as well. But is it all worth doing so? I mean can't we just change our perception towards the definition which is created in our minds or fed into by others about happiness, I mean according to me, it's all relative. Happiness comes from inside and not whatever happens to us, it's just a state of mind, isn't it? Some people rich enough to buy bungalows and apartments end up being sad and stressed most of the times whereas someone just living in a small space with their happy lives.

Anyways this was just to give a sensation of how happiness is just a function of your own mind and how its predefined variables and domains can be modified according to your desires, let's now move to a heartbreak. Have you ever had heartbreak in your life? How did you come out of it? Are you still struggling with things? Does it haunt you every day?

In some points of our lives, we all have gone through heartbreaks, whether it be a career, a relationship, a dream or anything and perhaps the moment we are broke, it just feels like everything ends here, nothing more can be done, we can't just hold it anymore and what not. A similar incident happened to me as well where I was shattered into pieces, broke as hell, no clue about what to do next. It will take another big article to describe what all happened to me but believe me it was horrible.

You know these are the moments in life which define us who we are as a person, and what we are meant to be. I mean, today after all this what happened to me, and the way it knocked me down, I feel sometimes in my wildest imaginations that who would I have been if those things wouldn't have happened to me. I mean the struggle I did, the extremes I went through, the character I developed it would all just have never happened if things won't have turned out to be the way they did. I mean, I know heartbreaks are painful, but guess what? I don't find any better metaphor to compare heartbreaks other than a washing machine, they turn you, they twist you and they knock you down, but when you move out of it, you move out cleaner, the brighter and a lot better than before.


The transformation needed within us can't just take place on its own, and that's what ups and downs in life are meant to be, they test us as who we are and how much can we fight, they take out our spirits to build up ourselves as the pillars, pillars of happiness, pillars of responsibility, pillars of humbleness, pillars of humanity etc. The way we react to those situations and the things we go through in the process of the betterment of ourselves to take us out of those moments makes us a really better person and which is a very important element of life as well.

