# Why Spiderman Will Be My Favourite Superhero Of All Time

No doubt marvel has come up with some of the most amazing superheros of all the time, based on their strengths, intellect, discipline, durability, endurance and a lot more, but when it comes to choose the favourite one, one person always takes the place: **Spiderman**.

So what is actually so special about this [character](https://www.forbes.com/sites/danidiplacido/2017/07/10/why-spider-man-is-and-will-always-be-a-superior-superhero/#53612fd64352)? Well, the best part about Spiderman is the way **he can be related with any other young teenager like you and me**. He's the most relatable superhero character of all time, he is never portrayed perfect, like you and me the guy has a lots of struggles in his life but along with a never giving up spirit as well. Unlike rich superheros like Ironman and Batman, Spider-Man stays on the young side and he belongs to a middle class family. He manages to make his own web shooters with everyday stuff he carries, this not only reflects his intellect but adaptability to situation as well. He knows his responsibility very well, and tries his best to avoid any kind of mistakes, even after being so much prepared there are times when he ends up messing things up, but the guy keeps going, his story teaches us perfectly that life is all about ups and downs, nothing is permanent and hit as hard as you can without thinking of what would be the outcome.

**He is emotionally strong and mentally stable**. A lot many times, situations have been what I can call as more than worse for him, his intentions are always good to make a difference, to help out the one in need, to try, to save people and his loved ones, but tables happened to turn against him.

<blockquote>
You coward Parker! Never expected this from you. Dr Cornos who trusted you the most for this internship and you turned him down like this. I, I loved you more than anything in this world and you ended running for those few bucks snapping spiderman secretly without even thinking about any one of us. Guess what! Thanks not to you and Spiderman who even don't know anyone of us, but still came and fought for us without even thinking for himself. I wish you learn something someday from him.
</blockquote>

The lines are being said by his own girlfriend when the guy disappears disregarding the fact he will be tagged as coward, from his internship lab in order to transform into spiderman and save all of them. To run his home after uncle Ben died, he worked as photographer in daily Bugle to capture Spiderman, he placed a camera while he was fighting hard battle with Lizard, who attacked the lab.

He tried to save them with self sacrifice, badly injured, bleeding he returns expecting that everyone will be happy, but people start getting mad at him, not just this after what all happened he was also fired from his internship. He feels like screaming that there's no spiderman and it was all him who saved them but then he realizes maybe people hate him, but they all love spiderman, maybe he lost everyone and everything he had, but saved the ones he loved, maybe his world is going to be hell now but this actual world has become a better place to live in. So What if things are turning the other way round, so what if it tore you apart and keeps your loved ones to hate you, but at least they are safe and fine because of you, maybe Peter Parker doesn't need spiderman but the world does and Spider-Man is there because spiderman is needed. It takes a lot of strength to choke your happiness and respect for the people you love, for those who matter. He lost so many people who were so close to him and being spiderman has never been easy for him, but still he persists, he stands up tall and again fights back harder and tries his best to keep things under check.

He is funny, his jokes are good enough to make anyone laugh. Even in most serious of times, the guy doesn't loose his humour, no matter whoever be the villian, he always makes a funny environment around him, even in **avengers infinity wars**, while fighting against supervillain like Thanos, he extracts out humor of those serious situations as well.

He is very responsible as a person, after death of his uncle, he takes charge of his studies, his aunt and ensures she doesn't face any problem. Further he takes care of his studies and handles his academics and internship exceptionally well too. Being Spiderman and taking care of personal life simaltaneously is something which takes a lot of efforts and no doubt he has done it better than anyone else.

And perhaps, these are the reasons why Spiderman is and always will be my favourite superhero.
