# Have You Discovered Who You Are?

In the hustle bustle of everyday life, we have lost ourselves getting engaged in our work. The evolution has turned our roads quite differently the way it used to be before.Social media, internet and new lifestyle have seized the time we once used to spend on ourselves, to relax look back how far we have come in this so-called journey of life. To actually enjoy our hearts out, to do silly things, to do things which makes us happy without considering how it will affect others.

When we are kids, we are slowly taught how to fit ourselves in, even if we have something which makes us stand out, our brains are continuously trained until we completely transform into social beings and start living life defined in norms of society and culture. This is the one way we lose or fail to be our true selves.

As an integral part of this weird and mysterious society, we start seeking our approvals from everywhere, the way we react to any situation depends on how much it gets validated from people around us. This doesn't at all makes any sense, we have started measuring our emotions on a relative scale, I did good but if he did better that implies I actually did bad and so on. I mean how can our lives be affected in accordance with how are others performing in their lives, we have no connections at all. If I am happy earning less, that means I am happy. It doesn't matter how much ever my cousins or my friends or my neighbors are earning. But since we are an integral part of this society, we are ashamed of the actions which show us inferior in no sense against others.

Two different human beings are going through two different lifestyles and living in two different situations with two different environments, you see there's so much difference in there still we end up comparing the two. Practically a healthy competition is a good practice, but then the outcomes should be left over the individuals as it is. Let them decide how they want to do it after that, not by comparing them with the other individuals who just got over them in that particular domain.

This all creates a feeling of competitiveness among minds of individuals, they perform themselves according to society and its norms and forget to create their own way of living instead tend to give it the traditional societal shot. And depending upon to what threshold they can survive, either they end up getting buried or just start existing instead of actually living out their lives to the fullest.

So it is really important to discover ourselves, we have to understand that the things which make us happy are something that delivers within. We need to understand that we have to choose the path we want to walk on and not the one on which it just looks good when you walk. We need to know what is good for us and not what society thinks is good for us, we have to dive deep down in our oceans of heart and mind and rediscover ourselves as the real human beings we are and then we have to understand our choices and our paths carefully.

